Docs/2.1 (#2940)
microsoft/teams-sdk: teams.md/src/pages/templates/migrations/v2-dotnet.mdx

| Startup | `builder.AddTeams()` + `app.UseTeams()` | `builder.Services.AddTeamsBotApplication()` + `app.UseTeamsBotApplication()` |
| Auth config | `Teams:*` settings | MSAL-native `AzureAd` + `BotFramework` sections |
| Messaging helpers | `Send`/`Reply`/`Quote`, `MessageActivity`, `app.Send`/`app.Reply` | `SendAsync`/`ReplyAsync`/`QuoteAsync`, `MessageActivityInput`, `app.SendAsync`/`app.ReplyAsync` |
| Cross-cutting pipeline | Plugin/event-bus patterns | `ITurnMiddleware` + DI |
| Local unauthenticated dev | `skipAuth: true` | `AzureAd:DangerouslyAllowUnauthenticatedRequests=true` |

## 1. Move to SDK 2.1 packages

Update package references to use SDK 2.1 packages.

Example `.csproj` change:

<Tabs groupId="dotnet-package-migration" defaultValue="current">
<TabItem value="legacy" label="Before (SDK 2.0)">

```xml
<ItemGroup>
  <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.Teams.Plugins.AspNetCore" Version="2.0.*" />
</ItemGroup>
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="current" label="After (SDK 2.1)" default>

```xml
<ItemGroup>
  <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.Teams.Apps" Version="2.1.*" />
</ItemGroup>
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## 2. Move to MSAL-native auth configuration

> SDK 2.1 moves from SDK-specific `Teams:*` auth settings to MSAL-native Microsoft Entra config under `AzureAd` (plus `BotFramework` service endpoints), aligned with standard ASP.NET Core configuration.

Reviewer: Note that since you're featuring launchSettings.json here you don't actually show the AzureAd structure.

I've been out of the .NET game for a while now, so maybe I'm out of touch, but using launchSettings.json as the config example everywhere without explaining that seems odd. Are we implicitly making a recommendation here not to put these settings in an appsettings.json for prod?

Reviewer 2: using launchsettings.json is purely for local development only by design (as per [official docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/environments?view=aspnetcore-10.0#set-the-environment-in-a-command-shell-when-the-app-is-run-dotnet-run)). It contains the application url (the port) where to host it locally, logging configurations...etc and so for samples we decided to put the config variables there so as to not have multiple config files (i.e add appsettings.json)

for prod, and non-local environments credentials should go into the appsettings.json file.

<Tabs groupId="dotnet-config-migration" defaultValue="current">
<TabItem value="legacy" label="SDK 2.0 (Legacy)">

```json title="appsettings.json"
{
  "Teams": {
    "ClientId": "your-client-id",
    "ClientSecret": "your-client-secret",
    "TenantId": "your-tenant-id",
    "Cloud": "USGov"
  }
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="current" label="SDK 2.1 (current)" default>

```json title="Properties/launchSettings.json"
{
  "profiles": {
    "YourBot": {
      "commandName": "Project",
      "environmentVariables": {
        "AzureAd__TenantId": "your-tenant-id",
        "AzureAd__ClientId": "your-client-id",
        "AzureAd__ClientCredentials__0__SourceType": "ClientSecret",
        "AzureAd__ClientCredentials__0__ClientSecret": "your-client-secret"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

For sovereign cloud or non-public endpoints, add the extra environment variables:

```json
"AzureAd__Instance": "https://login.microsoftonline.us/",
"BotFramework__OpenIdMetadataUrl": "https://login.botframework.azure.us/v1/.well-known/openid-configuration",
"BotFramework__BotTokenIssuer": "https://api.botframework.us"
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ## 3. Replace startup/bootstrap code

Reviewer: This is a good opportunity to explicitly call out the convention of naming the TeamsBotApplication instance `teams`.

Update `Program.cs` to the SDK 2.1 hosting model:

<Tabs groupId="dotnet-startup-migration" defaultValue="current">
<TabItem value="legacy" label="SDK 2.0 (Legacy)">

```csharp title="Program.cs"
using Microsoft.Teams.Plugins.AspNetCore.Extensions;

var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);
builder.AddTeams();

var app = builder.Build();
var teams = app.UseTeams();

app.Run();
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="current" label="SDK 2.1 (current)" default>

```csharp title="Program.cs"
using Microsoft.Teams.Apps;

WebApplicationBuilder builder = WebApplication.CreateSlimBuilder(args);
builder.Services.AddTeamsBotApplication();

WebApplication app = builder.Build();
TeamsBotApplication teams = app.UseTeamsBotApplication();

app.Run();
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ## 4. Update helper calls to SDK 2.1 APIs

Reviewer: Low pri: see if you can shorten the snippet here, it's a full-screen snippet for illustrating a very simple directive

Reviewer 2: splitting into sub code chunks would be good

        context.Activity.Conversation.Id,
        "Welcome",
        cancellationToken: cancellationToken);
    await teams.SendAsync(
        context.Activity.Conversation.Id,
        new MessageActivityInput("Welcome with activity object"),
        serviceUrl: context.Activity.ServiceUrl,
        cancellationToken: cancellationToken);

    await teams.ReplyAsync(
        context.Activity.Conversation.Id,
        "Flat chat update",
        cancellationToken: cancellationToken);
    await teams.ReplyAsync(
        context.Activity.Conversation.Id,
        "1772050244572",
        "Thread update",
        cancellationToken: cancellationToken);
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## 5. OAuth migration

In SDK 2.0, OAuth was typically handled through app-level sign-in events after invoking `context.SignIn(...)`.  
In SDK 2.1, OAuth is modeled as named flows (`AddOAuthFlow` + `GetOAuthFlow`) with explicit success and failure callbacks per flow.

Use these end-to-end OAuth patterns with three key handlers: `/signin`, sign-in success, and sign-in failure.

<Tabs groupId="dotnet-oauth-consolidated" defaultValue="current">
<TabItem value="legacy" label="SDK 2.0 (Legacy)">

```csharp

> teams.OnMessage("/signin", async (context, cancellationToken) =>

Reviewer: Low pri: Is there another way to illustrate this part? From a casual glance, `/signin` looks like this is registering some sort of endpoint; I'm actually not familiar with this overload of OnMessage

Reviewer 2: slash syntax is also used for /slash commands in teams. The first argument is a regex string, where if matched to incomming message, will trigger the handler.

    await context.Send($"Sign-in failed: {failure?.Code} - {failure?.Message}", cancellationToken);
});
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="current" label="SDK 2.1 (current)" default>

```csharp
builder.Services.AddTeamsBotApplication(options =>
{
    options.AddOAuthFlow("graph", oauth =>
    {
        oauth.OAuthCardText = "Sign in to Microsoft Graph";
        oauth.SignInButtonText = "Sign in to Graph";
    });
});

OAuthFlow graphAuth = teams.GetOAuthFlow("graph");

graphAuth.OnSignInComplete(async (context, tokenResponse, cancellationToken) =>
{
    await context.SendAsync($"Signed in ({tokenResponse.ConnectionName}).", cancellationToken);
});

teams.OnMessage("/signin", async (context, cancellationToken) =>
{
    string? token = await graphAuth.SignInAsync(context, cancellationToken);
    if (token is not null)
    {
        await context.SendAsync("You are already signed in.", cancellationToken);
    }
});

graphAuth.OnSignInFailure(async (context, failure, cancellationToken) =>
{
    await context.SendAsync($"Sign-in failed: {failure?.Code} - {failure?.Message}", cancellationToken);
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## 6. Migrate to built-in state management

> SDK 2.1 state is cleaner: call `options.UseState()` and use `context.State.ConversationState` / `context.State.UserState` in handlers.

Reviewer: Maybe a good opportunity to give some examples of what state is intended for. Call out IDistributedCache as specifically a standard ASP.NET Core abstraction for anyone who might not be familiar with it.

It is also easy to scale. `UseState()` uses `IDistributedCache` under the hood with an in-memory default for local dev, and you can move to shared state by registering a distributed cache provider (for example Redis) without changing your handler state logic.

<Tabs groupId="dotnet-state-migration" defaultValue="current">
<TabItem value="legacy" label="SDK 2.0 (Legacy)">

```csharp
teams.OnMessage(async (context, cancellationToken) =>
{
    context.Extra["lastText"] = context.Activity.Text;
    await context.Storage.Set("conversation:lastText", context.Activity.Text ?? string.Empty);
    await context.Send("Saved state.", cancellationToken);
});
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="current" label="SDK 2.1 (current)" default>

```csharp
builder.Services.AddTeamsBotApplication(options =>
{
    options.UseState();
});

teams.OnMessage(async (context, cancellationToken) =>
{
    context.State.ConversationState.Set("lastText", context.Activity.Text ?? string.Empty);
    string? lastText = context.State.ConversationState.Get<string>("lastText");
    await context.SendAsync($"Saved state: {lastText}", cancellationToken);
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## 7. AI migration

> SDK 2.0 AI-specific libraries are deprecated. In SDK 2.1, keep `Microsoft.Teams.Apps` as your Teams transport/runtime layer and plug in a dedicated AI stack (for example Microsoft Agent Framework, OpenAI SDK, MCP, or A2A) from your handlers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With 2.1, Teams SDK no longer includes dedicated AI libraries and has tightened its focus on providing a developer-friendly interface to Teams. Use whatever SDKs and libraries you're familiar with for working with AI - Microsoft Agent Framework, OpenAI SDK, MCP and A2A libraries, whatever you need. Teams SDK's focus is on presenting the right abstractions for working with Teams so you can just drop them in.
```

        .Build();
});

teams.OnTaskFetch(async (context, cancellationToken) =>
{
    return TaskModuleResponse.CreateBuilder()
        .WithType(TaskModuleResponseTypes.Message)
        .WithMessage("Task fetch handled.")
        .Build();
});

teams.OnFileConsent(async (context, cancellationToken) =>
{
    var consent = context.Activity.Value;
    await context.SendAsync($"File received: {consent?.FileInfo?.Name}", cancellationToken);
});

teams.OnMeetingStart(async (context, cancellationToken) =>
{
    var activity = context.Activity.Value;
    await context.SendAsync($"'{activity.Title}' has started.", cancellationToken);
});
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## 11. Plugin/event-bus patterns → turn middleware

SDK 2.1 removes plugin/event-bus style extensibility. Use `ITurnMiddleware` for cross-cutting behavior.

```csharp
using Microsoft.Teams.Apps;
using Microsoft.Teams.Core;
using Microsoft.Teams.Core.Schema;

internal sealed class LoggingMiddleware : ITurnMiddleware
{
    public async Task OnTurnAsync(
        BotApplication botApplication,
        CoreActivity activity,
        NextTurn nextTurn,
        CancellationToken cancellationToken = default)
    {

>         await nextTurn(cancellationToken);

Reviewer: Maybe at least a logging statement or something to give an idea of what you can do with this.

Author: fixed in PR - https://github.com/microsoft/teams-sdk/pull/2946

    }
}

teams.UseMiddleware(new LoggingMiddleware());
```

> ## 12. Update local dev auth behavior

Reviewer: Maybe one sentence here about how this if for if you are testing with a local *client* like Playground or something bespoke.
